Add rollback detection docs | SDCD-952 (#28215)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/continuous_delivery/features/rollbacks_detection.md

{{< /callout >}}

## Overview

Knowing when specific deployments are performing a rollback is useful to:
- Understand deployment stability and the frequency of rollbacks across your services
- Identify patterns in deployment issues that lead to rollbacks

To detect rollbacks, Datadog compares the current deployment version with the previous deployment versions deployed for the same service and environment. A rollback is identified when:
1. The current version is different from the previous version. This ensures that re-deploying the same version does not constitute a rollback.
2. The current version matches a version that was previously deployed

You can search for rollback deployments in the [Deployment Executions page][1], using the `@deployment.is_rollback` tag:

{{< img src="continuous_delivery/features/rollbacks-deployment-executions.png" alt="Rollback indicator in Deployment Executions page" style="width:100%;">}}

You can also see more detailed information in the event detail:

{{< img src="continuous_delivery/features/rollbacks-detail.png" alt="Rollback detail" style="width:100%;">}}

## Requirements

> Rollback detection works for deployments that have:

Author: All of them

---
title: Rollbacks Detection
description: Learn how CD Visibility detects deployment rollbacks.
further_reading:
- link: "/continuous_delivery/deployments/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn about Deployment Visibility"
- link: "/continuous_delivery/explorer"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Learn how to query and visualize deployments"
---

{{< site-region region="gov" >}}
<div class="alert alert-warning">CD Visibility is not available in the selected site ({{< region-param key="dd_site_name" >}}) at this time.</div>
{{< /site-region >}}

{{< callout url="https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLScNhFEUOndGHwBennvUp6-XoA9luTc27XBwtSgXhycBVFM9yA/viewform?usp=sf_link" btn_hidden="false" header="Join the Preview!" >}}
CD Visibility is in Preview. If you're interested in this feature, complete the form to request access.
{{< /callout >}}

## Overview

> Rollbacks Detection allows Datadog to identify when a deployment is reverting to a previously deployed version. This is particularly valuable to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Knowing when specific deployments are performing a rollback is useful to:
```

I would add a sentence around what is a rollback before this

- Understand deployment stability and the frequency of rollbacks across your services
- Identify patterns in deployment issues that lead to rollbacks

> To detect rollbacks, Datadog compares the current deployment version with the previous deployment version. A rollback is identified when:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To detect rollbacks, Datadog compares the current deployment version with the previous deployment versions deployed for the same service and environment. A rollback is identified when:
```

> 1. The current version is different from the previous version

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. The current version is different from the previous version. This ensures that re-deploying the same version does not constitute a rollback.
```

2. The current version matches a version that was previously deployed

> This detection helps teams understand when they're reverting to a known good state, which can be crucial for incident response and post-mortem analysis.

Reviewer: Mmm what do you mean here?

Author: I'll better remove it

> Rollback information is visible in the [Deployment Executions page][1], where you can see which deployments were rollbacks and what version they rolled back to. You can query for them using the `@deployment.is_rollback` tag.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can search for rollbacks deployments in the [Deployment Executions page][1], using the `@deployment.is_rollback` tag
```

We also have a facet for this btw

{{< img src="continuous_delivery/features/rollbacks-deployment-executions.png" alt="Rollback indicator in Deployment Executions page" style="width:100%;">}}

You can also see more detailed information in the event detail:

{{< img src="continuous_delivery/features/rollbacks-detail.png" alt="Rollback detail" style="width:100%;">}}

## How it works

Datadog detects rollbacks by maintaining a history of deployed versions for each service and environment. When a new deployment occurs:

1. The system compares the current deployment version with the previous deployment version
2. If the versions are different, it checks if the current version matches any previously deployed version

> 3. If a match is found, the deployment is marked as a rollback

Reviewer: I am not sure if we need this:

- It's quite intuitive how it works
- It's already explained above in terms of what constitutes a rollback. How we are doing it is not relevant to me

This detection is automatic and requires no additional configuration beyond the standard deployment tracking setup.

## Requirements

Rollback detection works for deployments that have:
- A service (`@deployment.service`)
- An environment (`@deployment.env`)

> - A version identifier

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A version identifier (`@deployment.version`)
```
?

### Version for CI Based providers
For CI-based providers, Datadog uses the `--revision` parameter that you pass to the `datadog ci` command. This parameter should contain the version identifier for your deployment (such as a commit SHA, image tag, or version number).

> ### Version for ArgoCD

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Version for Argo CD
```

Also for below

For ArgoCD deployments, Datadog uses the `revision` value to detect rollbacks. Note that when using ArgoCD's revert functionality, a new revision is created, which means Datadog won't detect it as a rollback. To properly track rollbacks in Datadog with ArgoCD, you need to redeploy using an older revision.

> We are working with the ArgoCD team to improve this mechanism. You can track the progress in [this GitHub issue](https://github.com/argoproj/argo-cd/issues/20896).

Reviewer: I'd avoid to mention this in the docs honestly, and instead updating them once this is merged and deployed with an explicit reference to the version that they'd need to update to
